We have a question about domains and
subdomains, and
it's actually a good introduction for
the next property.
So I'm going to probably answer the
question while writing the next property.
The next property is called scope, okay?
Scope defines actually the folder or
subfolder that
defines what's within the app and
what's outside of the app.
So, let me try to explain that.
First, most of the time 99%
of the PWAs are setting
the scope as this, the current folder.
So that means that, If you have a link
here in your HTML to another HTML,
if it's in the scope,
so if it's in the same folder,
the app will render that link.
Our window will render that link.
But if it's outside of the scope,
such as an external domain,
a different domain, or
a different folder, it will be rendered in
some kind of a browser, and
we're going to see it in action later.
The problem is with subdomains, and
I'm going to make a broader question here,
is that what happens if we
have a PWA basis planning?
It's URLs across different domains.
They can be sub-domains, or
different, sometimes country TLDs.
Like you have a different TLD for
UK, another one for France.
Well, actually, this is a challenge, or
let's say a limitation that we
have today in the PWA platform.
Each domain even if it's a sub domain,
will always be treated
as an external origin.
So it's not going to be part of a PWA.
Even if you're pointing to the same
manifest, it doesn't matter.
They will be different PWAs.
So if you have different domains,
and the user will be able to install
different apps, so you will end up
with duplicates probably, okay?
And so you shouldn't do that.
It's actually a problem.
So if you're creating,
if you're using dynamic DNS like
star.yourdomain.com that is
pointing to different apps,
like you are deep linking into
different IDs based on the domain,
you will have infinite PWAs actually,
not one.
So it's always a good idea to
keep everything under one domain.
What happens with logins,
like if you're using OAuth and
you have a different domain,
that's not actually a problem.
Okay, you can call that and
we will see it in action later, but
it will actually open an inner browser.
So for example, if you open Tinder,
and if you click Login,
remember this is a PWA, if we try
to log in with Google, in Tinder,
that goes to another domain
that is not under tinder.com.
Well, this is what will happen.
We have at the top,
like a URL bar that is not editable,
so this is called an inner browser.
So when you link within your
PWA to an external file,
an external URL,
an inner browser will appear.
And this is not Safari.
I'm still in the Tinder app.
So this is by default, automatic,
free in a browser that
will get in a PWA on every platform,
Android, iOS or dekstop.
From here, you can open the browser,
you can share.
Or if you hit Done, or if this URL in
a different domain goes back to my domain,
like returning from the OAuth,
it will go back to the PWA.
So it will close the browser
automatically, as if I hit Done.
If you have a link to an external URL,
an external domain,
have in mind and in a browser will appear.
And the user can go back,
or the user will get back
automatically if that URL
goes back to your domain.
So the question is about the start URL.
Can the start URL be a different domain,
being subdomain or
a completely different TLD?
The answer is no.
The browsers today are checking
that the start URL must be
within the same origin as
the web manifest itself.
If you have an absolute link
here to somewhere else,
you're not passing the PWA criteria, and
the start URL may be ignored at all.
So it's not gonna work.
That's why multiorders
Xing PWAs is not something
that we have available these days.
We have a question on the theme color.
The spec, the web manifest spec,
defines the metadata as a way
to define the theme color.
The theme color that we have in
the manifest is actually a fallback.
So in case this metatag is not present,
it's going to use the one in the manifest
that is actually statically defined.
And also, the one that is in
the theme in the manifest,
the theme color that is in the manifest,
is actually useful for
when your app is still not ready.
Think about this, when you open an app,
the app typically starts with a splash
screen, and
we're going to talk about that later.
That splash screen will use
the theme color from your manifest,
because the HTML is not loaded yet.
So it's not really your metatag.
So that's why it's always a good idea
to have the theme color on both places.
Most of the time,
you're going to see that the start URL
is also being used with some arguments.
This is completely optional.
But for example, something that is
common to see is that you can add
something like a Google
analytics attribute here,
like UTM source, where you say PWA or
homescreen, or a standalone.
So then, within your Google Analytics or
any other analytics providers,
you can automatically separate between
when the user is using the browser or
when the user is using
your app from the icon.
And we are still missing one
very important property.
If we don't set this property,
we don't have a PWA rate.
The property's called display,
and we are going to
set one of the possible values
that we have these days.
It can be browser, and if we said browser
it means that we do not want a PWA.
So if the user installs the icon, it will
be a bookmark, a shortcut to the browser.
So we don't want that, right?
Another option, and it's nine of ten PWAs
are actually using this value,
is standalone.
Most of the time you're
going to use standalone.
A standalone means that you
actually want your web content
to be rendered as
a standalone application.
That's the idea if you don't
have that you have a problem.
Other options that we have are minimal UI.
Minimal UI will ask the browser to render
a minimal navigation user interface.
For example, Sqoosh is standalone.
YouTube music is minimal UI.
How do I know that?
Because YouTube music in
the title bar has this Stop and
Reload button, and the Back button.
Those buttons are not available in Sqoosh.
That's the difference from
dekstop between standalone,
Sqoosh and minimal UI YouTube music.
Okay, make sense?
iOS is not supporting minimal UI,
only standalone.
So if you set minima UI,
it falls back to browser.
So it will just open the browser
it won't be actually a PWA.
And the final value that we have here,
at least today, is full screen.
That is only suitable for Android.
So dekstop and iOS will fall back
to standalone, like a normal PWA.
To understand what's the difference
between full screen and
a standalone and Android,
let me jump back to the slides.
On Android, when we have a standalone
experience, it will look like this.
You have the theme color
in the Status bar, and
the rest of the app appears
with your HTML and CSS.
Minimal UI will actually render
like a larger URL bar with
your theme color,
in this case the orange, and
you will see the current page title,
the current origin, the URL.
And also there is a little menu,
a drop-down menu on Android,
where you can share,
you can see the current info.
And the info for
example has the TLS certificate.
And the full screen,
it's completely full screen.
You don't even see a Status bar.
To understand this,
let's see all the display modes
in Android in action all at once.
We have standalone,
minimal UI, and full screen.
So when you're in full screen,
you're actually using also the space for
the Status bar and for the navigation
bar at the bottom, which means the user
won't see notifications,
the current battery level, or the time.
So full screen is suitable for
games or immersive experiences,
such as if you're doing mixed reality,
or built a reality.
For most apps, typically,
standalone is the way to go.
And remember,
minimal UI is not supported on IOS, and
full screen is not supported on iOS or
desktop.